---
title: "A Clustering Framework for Unsupervised and Semi-supervised New Intent Discovery"
title: "MIntRec2.0: A Large-scale Benchmark Dataset for Multimodal Intent Recognition and Out-of-scope Detection in Conversations"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/USNID
excerpt: 'New intent discovery is of great value to natural language processing, allowing for a better understanding of user needs and providing friendly services. However, most existing methods struggle to capture the complicated semantics of discrete text representations when limited or no prior knowledge of labeled data is available. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel clustering framework, USNID, for unsupervised and semi-supervised new intent discovery, which has three key technologies. First, it fully utilizes unsupervised or semi-supervised data to mine shallow semantic similarity relations and provide well-initialized representations for clustering. Second, it designs a centroid-guided clustering mechanism to address the issue of cluster allocation inconsistency and provide high-quality self-supervised targets for representation learning. Third, it captures high-level semantics in unsupervised or semi-supervised data to discover fine-grained intent-wise clusters by optimizing both cluster-level and instance-level objectives. We also propose an effective method for estimating the cluster number in open-world scenarios without knowing the number of new intents beforehand. USNID performs exceptionally well on several benchmark intent datasets, achieving new state-of-the-art results in unsupervised and semi-supervised new intent discovery and demonstrating robust performance with different cluster numbers.'

---
New intent discovery is of great value to natural language processing, allowing for a better understanding of user needs and providing friendly services. However, most existing methods struggle to capture the complicated semantics of discrete text representations when limited or no prior knowledge of labeled data is available. To tackle this problem, we propose a novel clustering framework, USNID, for unsupervised and semi-supervised new intent discovery, which has three key technologies. First, it fully utilizes unsupervised or semi-supervised data to mine shallow semantic similarity relations and provide well-initialized representations for clustering. Second, it designs a centroid-guided clustering mechanism to address the issue of cluster allocation inconsistency and provide high-quality self-supervised targets for representation learning. Third, it captures high-level semantics in unsupervised or semi-supervised data to discover fine-grained intent-wise clusters by optimizing both cluster-level and instance-level objectives. We also propose an effective method for estimating the cluster number in open-world scenarios without knowing the number of new intents beforehand. USNID performs exceptionally well on several benchmark intent datasets, achieving new state-of-the-art results in unsupervised and semi-supervised new intent discovery and demonstrating robust performance with different cluster numbers.
Multimodal intent recognition poses significant challenges, requiring the incorporation of non-verbal modalities from real-world contexts to enhance the comprehension of human intentions. However, most existing multimodal intent benchmark datasets are limited in scale and suffer from difficulties in handling out-of-scope samples that arise in multi-turn conversational interactions. In this paper, we introduce MIntRec2.0, a large-scale benchmark dataset for multimodal intent recognition in multi-party conversations. It contains 1,245 high-quality dialogues with 15,040 samples, each annotated within a new intent taxonomy of 30 fine-grained classes, across text, video, and audio modalities. In addition to more than 9,300 in-scope samples, it also includes over 5,700 out-of-scope samples appearing in multi-turn contexts, which naturally occur in real-world open scenarios, enhancing its practical applicability. Furthermore, we provide comprehensive information on the speakers in each utterance, enriching its utility for multi-party conversational research. We establish a general framework supporting the organization of single-turn and multi-turn dialogue data, modality feature extraction, multimodal fusion, as well as in-scope classification and out-of-scope detection. Evaluation benchmarks are built using classic multimodal fusion methods, ChatGPT, and human evaluators. While existing methods incorporating nonverbal information yield improvements, effectively leveraging context information and detecting out-of-scope samples remains a substantial challenge. Notably, powerful large language models exhibit a significant performance gap compared to humans, highlighting the limitations of machine learning methods in the advanced cognitive intent understanding task. We believe that MIntRec2.0 will serve as a valuable resource, providing a pioneering foundation for research in human-machine conversational interactions, and significantly facilitating related applications. The full dataset and codes are available for use at https://github.com/thuiar/MIntRec2.0.

[[pdf]](/files/TKDE23-USNID/USNID.pdf)
[[code]](https://github.com/thuiar/TEXTOIR)
[[bib]](/files/TKDE23-USNID/USNID.bib)
